---
title: Artists
layout: about
permalink: /artists.html
---
# Artist Profiles
View the work of each artist by clicking the green button above the corresponding description.

{% include feature/button.html text="Elaine Dye" link="https://jjuliaarnoldd.github.io/DigitalLibrariesFinalProject/browse.html#dye%2C%20elaine" color="success" %}


{% include feature/button.html text="Kathleen Fischer" link="https://jjuliaarnoldd.github.io/DigitalLibrariesFinalProject/browse.html#fischer%2C%20kathleen" color="success" %}
Kathleen, or Kathy, Fischer was initiated into the art of sewing and fiber art at a very young age, growing up with a mother and grandmother who were both proficient in sewing and hand-stitching, as well as various needlework techniques like cross-stitch and long-stitch. She participated in 4-H as an elementary-school child and completed multiple types of projects as part of the program. While her daughters Sarah and Joyce were young, Kathy would regularly sew them dresses using patterns that the girls had selected themselves. Included in this collection, one of her favorite projects from over the years was a pair of [Raggedy Ann and Andy dolls](https://jjuliaarnoldd.github.io/DigitalLibrariesFinalProject/item.html?id=coll012), created for her granddaughters Julia and Sophia Arnold. From only some fabric and a needle and thread, the dolls just came to life and were greatly enjoyed by her grandchildren. It is the satisfaction of finishing a project that Kathy most enjoys about fiber and textile work. These days, she completes various pick-up projects, such as placemats, and learning how to knit remains a long-standing goal of hers. 

{% include feature/button.html text="Sarah Arnold" link="https://jjuliaarnoldd.github.io/DigitalLibrariesFinalProject/browse.html#arnold%2C%20sarah" color="success" %}
I was introduced to sewing by my mother and grandmother. I have vivid memories of going to the local fabric store, where I would flip through pattern books, make a selection, and then my mother or grandmother would magically create the item from the pattern. In addition to the practical, wearable items I received, I recall being gifted numerous home-made sewing projects as both labors and gifts of love. I find that I appreciate these items much more today than I did as a child, now that I am aware of the amount of time my grandmother and mother spent on each project, every stitch of which was sewn with love and care. Today, these gifts are priceless to me, and I love that my daughters have found the same joy in making and giving that my ancestors had. For me, I am sorry that I never learned to be a competent seamstress, as I recognize that as an incredibly valuable life skill. I do, however, enjoy the occasional cross-stitch and look forward to creating those little tokens of love for my children.<br>

{% include feature/button.html text="Julia Arnold" link="https://jjuliaarnoldd.github.io/DigitalLibrariesFinalProject/browse.html#arnold%2C%20julia" color="success" %}
A first-year student in Indiana University's Dual Degree Master of Library Science and Art History Master's program, and the creator of this collection, Julia is interested in studying the fiber and textile work of her relatives, as well as that of much more well-known artists such as Faith Ringgold. As a child on weekend trips to her grandparents' house, she learned to sew while sitting at the machine on her Grandma Kathy's knee, helping to guide the fabric though her legs were too short to press the pedal. Beyond her academic interests, her current hands-on engagement with fiber and textile work is primarily practical, such as adding a button or fixing a hem. She typically enjoys alternate forms of artistic expression, but the collection does include a lone example of her textile work. Although an infrequent practitioner, Julia is an avid fan of fiber and textile art, particularly vintage embroidery, as evidenced by both her wardrobe and apartment decor.<br>  

{% include feature/button.html text="Sophia Arnold" link="https://jjuliaarnoldd.github.io/DigitalLibrariesFinalProject/browse.html#arnold%2C%20sophia" color="success" %}
Sophia Arnold is a senior at Vanderbilt University, studying Psychology and Human & Organizational Development. However, her true passion lies in fashion and creative work. She serves as the Director and President of Vanderbilt Fashion Week, a student-led organization that celebrates sustainable fashion, culture, and emerging designers through runway shows and community events. Sophia first discovered her love of fiber and textile arts during childhood visits to her grandmother’s house. She later deepened that connection when she took up embroidery during an illness, finding comfort in slowing down and creating something meaningful by hand. Over the past few years, she has completed a dozen embroideries as mementos and gifts for her family, an experience that strengthened her appreciation for craft and beauty. She is also re-learning to sew, alter clothing, and design her own pieces as part of her evolving fashion practice. Professionally, she works at Ella Jayms, a boutique dedicated to intentional and community-focused fashion, and serves as the General Coordinator for the Art In Motion Project, a nonprofit organization that uses art and design to promote peace and unity worldwide. After graduating, Sophia plans to continue her work with both organizations and pursue her goal of uniting fashion, creativity, and inclusivity to empower and inspire others.